Chapter-16

1. Introduction to web colors : Web colors are the colors used for displaying web pages in more colorful, vibrant & attractive manner.

Web colors are generally used to display background-color, border-color, font color etc...

Example : background-color : maroon;

In css there are three ways to specify web colors : 

a) Specify the name of a color.
b) Specify a color in term of its relative percentages in red, green, blue.
c) Specify the color in hexcode.

2. Specifying color by name : The most easiest & commonly used way to describe a color in css is by writing the color name.

Thre are 16 basic colors & 150 extended colors.

16 basic colors are :

Aqua, Black, Blue, Fuchsia, Gray, Green, Lime, Maroon, Navy, Olive, Purple, Red, Silver, Teal, White, Yellow.

Example : h1 {
		color : blue;
	     }

Note : css color names are not case-sensitive.

3. Specifying colors in red, green & blue values : We can specify a color as the respective amount of red, green & blue color.

Each parameter(red, green, blue) defines the intensity of the colors between 0 to 255.

Say for instance, if we need yellow color, then we have to write the code as : 

body {
	background-color : rgb (100%, 100%, 0%);
     }

a) Represents red color percentage as 100%.
b) Represents green color percentage as 100%.
c) Represents blue color percentage as 0%.

We can also specify the red, green & blue as a numeric value between 0 to 255.

body {
	background-color : rgb (255, 255, 0);
     }
a) Represents red color as 255.
b) Represents green color as 255.
c) Represents blue color as 0.

4. Specifying colors using hexcode : A hexcode is a way of specifying colors using hexadecimal values.

Hexcode always starts with a '#' sign & followed by 6 digits (0 - 9)/ alphabets (a - f).

The first two digits represents the amount of red, next two digits represents the amount of green & the last two digits represents the amount of blue.

Example : h1 {
		color : #0c67b6;
	     }

a) First two characters represents intensity of red.
b) Next two characters represents intensity of green.
c) last two characters represents intensity of blue.

5. Calculating the hexcode : hexcodes are not based on 10 digits (0 - 9) but are based on 16 digits (0 - f).

Using hexcodes, we need a single digit to count from 0 - 15 & so once we cross the digit 9 we start using letters.

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10(a) 11(b) 12(c) 13(d) 14(e) 15(f)

Steps for calculating hexcode : 

a) Separating the three components : separate the red, green & blue components of the hexcode
Example : #0c67b6 (Explain)

b) Converting hex numbers to decimal numbers : calculate the value for each digit within a range from 0 - 255.
Example : #0c67b6 (r = 12, g = 103, b = 182) show the calculation & explain.

Animation flow : take the left most digit & convert it to its decimal value( result 0), Multiply it by 16 (result 0), take the right most digit & convert it to its decimal value ( result 12), add both the numbers ( 0 + 12 = 12) repeat the same steps for other two values.

Note : We can also find the web colors using online web chart.

6. Adding color to <h1> element in index.css (Screen shot animation)

a) Open index.css file.
b) In <h1> element add the color as #0c67b6.
c) Save the file.
d) Cam pans to index.html & show the output.
e) Cam pans to index.css
f) Right click on #0c67b6 & click on quick edit option.
g) Quick edit drop down window appears (Explain about it).
h) Click on rgba inside drop down window.
i) Hexcode changes to rgb(12, 103, 182).
j) Save the file.
k) Cam pans to index.html & show the output.

7. What are complementary colors?
A. Complementary colors are opposite colors used as a pair in webpages which pleases the viewer's eye.

In a webpage if we use more than one color it should be complementing one another.

8. How to know the complementary colors? (Screen shot animation) 

a) In google type 'color wheel sessions college' and click on search.
b) Select "Color Wheel - Color Calculator Sessions College".
c) Color calculator window will open.
d) Move the color selector to whichever color you want.
e) If we click on the first option that is the complementary color option we'll get a opposite color to the color we have chosen.
f) If we click on the second option that is the monochromatic color option we'll get two different shades of the same color.
g) If we click on the third option that is the analog color option we'll get a color on each side of the color we have chosen. 
h) If we click on the fourth option that is the split-complementary color option then we'll get a color adjacent to the complementary color we have chosen.
i) If we click on the fifth option that is the triadic color option we'll get two different complementary colors to the color we have chosen.
j) If we click on the last option that is the tetradic color option we'll get three different complementary colors to the color we have chosen.

9. Bullet points : 

a) Web colors are created by mixing different amount of red, green & blue colors.
b) If you mix 100% of red, 100% of green, 100% of blue you will get white color as the result.
c) If you mix 0% of red, 0% of green, 0% of blue you will get black color as the result.
d) You can specify the colors : using its name, using the % of red, green & blue colors, using numerical values ranging from 0 - 255 for red, green & blue colors, using the hexcode.

10. Why there are two different ways to specify RGB values? Doesn't % seem more straight forward? 
A. We can specify the rgb values using numbers ranging between 0 - 255. This number is related to the number of values that can be held in one byte of information.

11. I have never seen anyone using rgb or actual color name in their css. Its seems everyone uses the hexcodes?
A. Using rgb values or actual color names is becoming more common, but "hexcodes" are most widely used because people consider them a convenient way to specify color.

12. Why the color property isn't called text-color?
A. The color property really controls the foreground color of an element. So it controls both the text & the border color, although you can give the border its own color with the border-color property. 
 

























